CogSci Individualization
========================

Companion repository for the 2020 article "Do Models Capture Individuals? Evaluating Parameterized Models for Syllogistic Reasoning" published in the proceedings of the 42nd Annual Meeting of the Cognitive Science Society.

### Overview

- `analysis/data/`: Contains the dataset.
    - `.../Ragni2016.csv`: Ragni2016 dataset taken from the official [CCOBRA repository](https://github.com/CognitiveComputationLab/ccobra/blob/master/benchmarks/syllogistic/data/Ragni2016.csv).
- `analysis/models/`: Contains the model implementations.
    - `.../mfa/`: Most-frequent answer (MFA) model implementation.
    - `.../mReasoner`: mReasoner implementation adapted from the [pymreasoner project](https://github.com/nriesterer/pymreasoner).
    - `.../phm`: PHM implementation adapted from the [phm project](https://github.com/nriesterer/phm).
- `analysis/results/`: Contains the CCOBRA evaluation results and output logs.
    - `.../group.csv`: Coverage results for the group models (non-individualized and MFA).
    - `.../indiv.csv`: Coverage results for the individualized models.
    - `.../mReasoner-fit.out`: mReasoner's stdout output resulting from `print`-statements (contains parameterization information).
    - `.../phm-fit.out`: PHM's stdout output resulting from `print`-statements (contains parameterization information).
- `analysis/visualizations/`: Contains the generated plots.
- `analysis/evaluate.json`: CCOBRA benchmark specification.
- `analysis/Makefile`: Makefile for facilitated execution of the scripts (evaluate and plot).
- `analysis/plot_fig1_boxplot.py`: Generates figure 1, a boxplot representation of the coverage analysis results.
- `analysis/plot_fig2_mReasoner_params.py`: Generates figure 2, a distribution overview for the resulting mReasoner parameters.
- `analysis/plot_fig3_phm_params.py`: Generates figure 3, a distribution overview for the resulting PHM parameters.
- `analysis/plot_fig4_congruency.py`: Generates figure 4, an overview about the overlap/congruency between mReasoner and PHM.

### Dependencies

- Python 3
    - [CCOBRA](https://github.com/CognitiveComputationLab/ccobra)
    - [pandas](https://pandas.pydata.org)
    - [numpy](https://numpy.org)
    - [seaborn](https://seaborn.pydata.org)

### Quickstart

#### Perform the CCOBRA coverage evaluation

After installing CCOBRA, run the following command:

```
cd /path/to/repository/analysis
$> ccobra evaluate.json
```

Alternatively, you can use the Makefile:

```
cd /path/to/repository/analysis
$> make evaluation
```

#### Plot the figures

Note that the following commands require existing `analysis/results/group.csv` and `analysis/results/indiv.csv` files containing the CCOBRA evaluation results for the group and individual models, respectively, as well as `analysis/results/mReasoner-fit.out` and `analysis/results/phm-fit.out` containing the model output (i.e., the output generated by `print`-statements) which provide information about the parameterization of the models.

Run the following commands:

```
cd /path/to/repository/analysis
$> python3 plot_fig1_boxplot.py results/group.csv results/indiv.csv
$> python3 plot_fig2_mReasoner_params.py results/mReasoner-fit.out
$> python3 plot_fig3_phm_params.py results/phm-fit.out
$> python3 plot_fig4_congruency.py results/indiv.csv
```

Alternatively, you can use the Makefile:

```
cd /path/to/repository/analysis
$> make plot
```

### Reference

Riesterer, N., Brand, D., & Ragni, M. (in press). Do Models Capture Individuals? Evaluating Parameterized Models for Syllogistic Reasoning. In Proceedings of the 42nd Annual Conference of the Cognitive Science Society.
